Views for the Bug Release Targeting Pages
=========================================

The release-targeting feature is accessed from the bug task page, on a
page called "+target". The context of the view will be an
IDistroBugTask or an IDistroReleaseBugTask. Let's use an
IDistroBugTask for this example:

  >>> from zope.component import getUtility
  >>> from canonical.launchpad.interfaces import IBugTaskSet
  >>> ubuntu_distro_task = getUtility(IBugTaskSet).get(17)

We'll also need a "mock" request:

  >>> from zope.publisher.browser import TestRequest
  >>> request = TestRequest()

Let's instantiate the view:

  >>> from zope.component import queryView
  >>> bug_targeting_view = queryView(ubuntu_distro_task, "+target", request)

Accessing Release Target Data
-----------------------------

The release_target_details view attribute provides the data required
to render a release target selection widget. It returns data for each
relevant release, where "relevant" means a release of the distribution
associated with the IDistroBugTask or the IDistroReleaseBugTask.

  >>> release_target_details = bug_targeting_view.release_target_details

release_target_details is a list of that provide
BugDistroReleaseTargetDetails objects. All that's left is to verify
that the data is as we expect it to be.

  >>> from canonical.launchpad.interfaces import (
  ...     IDistroReleaseSet, ISourcePackageNameSet, IPersonSet)
  >>> from canonical.lp import dbschema
  >>> from canonical.launchpad.interfaces.bug import BugDistroReleaseTargetDetails

  >>> distroreleaseset = getUtility(IDistroReleaseSet)
  >>> spnameset = getUtility(ISourcePackageNameSet)
  >>> personset = getUtility(IPersonSet)

  >>> for item in release_target_details:
  ...     print item.release.name
  grumpy
  hoary
  warty

  >>> release_target_details[0].release.name
  u'grumpy'
  >>> release_target_details[0].istargeted == False
  True
  >>> release_target_details[0].sourcepackage.sourcepackagename == spnameset.get(1)
  True
  >>> release_target_details[0].assignee is None
  True
  >>> release_target_details[0].status is None
  True

  >>> release_target_details[1].release.name
  u'hoary'
  >>> release_target_details[1].istargeted == False
  True
  >>> release_target_details[1].sourcepackage.sourcepackagename == spnameset.get(1)
  True
  >>> release_target_details[1].assignee is None
  True
  >>> release_target_details[1].status is None
  True

  >>> release_target_details[2].release.name
  u'warty'
  >>> release_target_details[2].istargeted == False
  True
  >>> release_target_details[2].sourcepackage.sourcepackagename == spnameset.get(1)
  True
  >>> release_target_details[2].assignee is None
  True
  >>> release_target_details[2].status is None
  True

Creating the Targeted Tasks
---------------------------

The createTargetedTasks method is used to create the appropriate
distrorelease tasks based on request data. It checks that a field
named "savetargets" is present in the request and that it evaluates to
True in a boolean context.

It will look for a list of values named "target". Each "target" value
will look like $releasename.$spname. If $spname is an empty string,
the task is created on the distrorelease and not targeted to a
specific sourcepackagename.

To see this in action, let's first confirm that there are zero
targeted releases for the ubuntu_distro_task used in this example:

  >>> distrorelease_tasks = [
  ...     task for task in ubuntu_distro_task.bug.bugtasks
  ...     if task.distrorelease]

  >>> print len(distrorelease_tasks)
  0

Now we'll simulate a request to target the fix to warty. In doing so,
we'll also ensure to be logged in, since this is a requirement for
accessing the +target page:

  >>> from canonical.launchpad.ftests import login
  >>> login("test@canonical.com")

  >>> request = TestRequest(
  ...     form={'savetargets': True, 'target': 'warty.mozilla-firefox'})

  >>> bug_targeting_view = queryView(ubuntu_distro_task, "+target", request)
  >>> bug_targeting_view.createTargetedTasks()

Now there should be one targeted task:

  >>> distrorelease_tasks = [
  ...     task for task in ubuntu_distro_task.bug.bugtasks
  ...     if task.distrorelease]

  >>> print len(distrorelease_tasks)
  1
