= Hierarchical menus =

The location bar aids users in navigating the depths of Launchpad.  It
is built from a list of Breadcrumb objects collected during Zope's
object-traversal step.

== A simple object hierarchy ==

First, we need a hierarchy of objects to build upon:

    >>> from zope.component import getMultiAdapter, provideAdapter
    >>> from zope.interface import Interface, implements

    >>> class ICookbook(Interface):
    ...     """A cookbook for holding recipes."""

    >>> class IRecipe(Interface):
    ...     """A recipe in a cookbook."""

    >>> from canonical.launchpad.webapp.interfaces import ICanonicalUrlData

    >>> class BaseContent:
    ...     implements(ICanonicalUrlData)
    ...
    ...     def __init__(self, name, parent):
    ...         self.name = name
    ...         self.path = name
    ...         self.inside = parent
    ...         self.rootsite = None

    >>> class Root(BaseContent):
    ...     """ The site root."""

    >>> class Cookbook(BaseContent):
    ...     implements(ICookbook)

    >>> class Recipe(BaseContent):
    ...     implements(IRecipe)

Today we'll be cooking with Spam!

    >>> root = Root('', None)
    >>> cookbook = Cookbook('joy-of-cooking', root)
    >>> recipe = Recipe('spam', cookbook)


== Discovering breadcrumbs ==

The Hierarchy class builds the breadcrumbs by looking at each object in
the request.traversed_objects attribute.  If a traversed object can be
adapted to IBreadcrumbBuilder, then it is added to the breadcrumbs list.

We'll add the objects to the request's list of traversed objects so
the hierarchy will discover them.

    >>> from canonical.lazr.testing.menus import make_fake_request
    >>> request = make_fake_request(
    ...     'http://launchpad.dev/joy-of-cooking/spam',
    ...     [root, cookbook, recipe])

The Hierarchy's list of breadcrumbs is empty since none of the objects
have an IBreadcrumbBuilder adapter.

    >>> hierarchy = getMultiAdapter((recipe, request), name='+hierarchy')
    >>> hierarchy.items()
    []

Adding the adapters causes the Cookbook and Recipe objects to show up
in the hierarchy.  The hierarchy's breadcrumbs are in-order, starting
with the breadcrumb closest to the hierarchy root.

    >>> from canonical.launchpad.webapp.breadcrumb import BreadcrumbBuilder

    # Note that the Hierarchy assigns the breadcrumb's URL, but we need to
    # give it a valid .text attribute.
    >>> class TextualBreadcrumbBuilder(BreadcrumbBuilder):
    ...     @property
    ...     def text(self):
    ...         return self.context.name.capitalize().replace('-', ' ')

    >>> from canonical.launchpad.webapp.interfaces import IBreadcrumbBuilder

    >>> provideAdapter(
    ...     TextualBreadcrumbBuilder, [ICookbook], IBreadcrumbBuilder)
    >>> provideAdapter(
    ...     TextualBreadcrumbBuilder, [IRecipe], IBreadcrumbBuilder)

    >>> hierarchy.items()
    [<Breadcrumb
        url='http://launchpad.dev/joy-of-cooking'
        text='Joy of cooking'>,
     <Breadcrumb
        url='http://launchpad.dev/joy-of-cooking/spam'
        text='Spam'>]


== Building IBreadcrumb objects ==

The construction of breadcrumb objects is handled by an
IBreadcrumbBuilder factory.  The factory adapts a context object and
produces an IBreadcrumb object for that context.

The builder holds a temporary copy of a breadcrumb until the breadcrumb
is in a usable state.  This allows us to adapt the breadcrumb context
object in one place, and to defer setting the breadcrumb's URL.  We can
ask the builder for a finished breadcrumb after both the text and the
URL have been specified.

    >>> from canonical.launchpad.webapp.interfaces import IBreadcrumb
    >>> from canonical.launchpad.webapp.breadcrumb import BreadcrumbBuilder
    >>> from zope.interface.verify import verifyObject

    >>> builder = BreadcrumbBuilder(cookbook)
    >>> builder.text = 'Joy of cooking'
    >>> builder.url = 'http://launchpad.dev/joy-of-cooking'
    >>> verifyObject(IBreadcrumbBuilder, builder)
    True

    >>> breadcrumb = builder.make_breadcrumb()
    >>> verifyObject(IBreadcrumb, breadcrumb)
    True
    >>> breadcrumb
    <Breadcrumb
        url='http://launchpad.dev/joy-of-cooking'
        text='Joy of cooking'>

The builder enforces the requirement for breadcrumbs to have valid URL.
The builder raises an error if a URL is not explicitly given by the
developer.

    >>> builder = BreadcrumbBuilder(cookbook)
    >>> builder.text = 'Oops!'

    >>> builder.make_breadcrumb()
    Traceback (most recent call last):
    ...
    NotImplementedError

We can also see that an incomplete builder object doesn't fulfill the
IBreadcrumbBuilder interface.

    # XXX mars 2008-08-18
    # This should raise a NotImplementedError, but it hides it instead.
    # See bug 259183.
    >>> verifyObject(IBreadcrumbBuilder, builder)
    Traceback (most recent call last):
    ...
    BrokenImplementation: ... The url attribute was not provided.

The breadcrumb's attributes can be overridden with subclassing and
Python properties.

    >>> from canonical.launchpad.webapp.publisher import canonical_url

    >>> class DynamicBreadcrumbBuilder(BreadcrumbBuilder):
    ...     @property
    ...     def text(self):
    ...         return self.context.name.capitalize().replace('-', ' ')
    ...
    ...     @property
    ...     def url(self):
    ...         return canonical_url(self.context)

    >>> builder = DynamicBreadcrumbBuilder(cookbook)
    >>> builder.make_breadcrumb()
    <Breadcrumb
        url='http://launchpad.dev/joy-of-cooking'
        text='Joy of cooking'>


== Customizing the hierarchy ==

We can customize the hierarchy itself by changing the list of objects
and URLs that it uses to construct the breadcrumbs list.

The Hierarchy should *not* construct the Breadcrumb objects itself.  It
should let the IBreadcrumbBuilder handle it: this ensures consistencey
across the site.

    >>> from canonical.launchpad.browser.launchpad import Hierarchy

    >>> class CustomHierarchy(Hierarchy):
    ...     def items(self):
    ...         breadcrumb = self.breadcrumb_for(
    ...             recipe, "http://launchpad.dev/some-spammy-url")
    ...         # Omitted the check for 'breadcrumb is None'.
    ...         return [breadcrumb]

    >>> spammy_hierarchy = CustomHierarchy(root, request)
    >>> spammy_hierarchy.items()
    [<Breadcrumb
        url='http://launchpad.dev/some-spammy-url'
        text='Spam'>]


== Rendering the list ==

The Hierarchy object is responsible for rendering the HTML for the
location bar.

    >>> from BeautifulSoup import BeautifulSoup
    >>> from canonical.launchpad.testing.pages import extract_text

    # Borrowed from launchpad.testing.pages.print_location()
    >>> def print_hierarchy(html):
    ...     soup = BeautifulSoup(html)
    ...     hierarchy = soup.find(attrs={'id': 'lp-hierarchy'}).findAll(
    ...         recursive=False)
    ...     segments = [extract_text(step).encode('us-ascii', 'replace')
    ...                 for step in hierarchy
    ...                 if step.name != 'small']
    ...     print 'Location:', ' > '.join(segments[2:])

    >>> print_hierarchy(hierarchy.render())
    Location: Joy of cooking > Spam

The Launchpad Homepage displays no items in it's location bar.  We are
considered to be on the home page if there are no breadcrumbs.

    # Simulate a visit to the site root
    >>> request = make_fake_request('http://launchpad.dev/', [root])
    >>> homepage_hierarchy = getMultiAdapter(
    ...     (root, request), name='+hierarchy')

    >>> homepage_hierarchy.items()
    []

    >>> print_hierarchy(homepage_hierarchy.render())
    Location:

