= Incoming Mail =

When an email is sent to Launchpad we need to handle it somehow. This
is done by handleEmails:

    >>> from canonical.launchpad.mail.incoming import handleMail

Basically what it does is to open the Launchpad mail box, and for each
message it:

    * Authenticates the sender
    * Finds the correct mail handler
    * Lets the handler process the message
    * Deletes the message from the mail box


== Mail Handlers ==

A mail handler is a utility which knows how to handle mail sent to a
specific domain. It is registered as a named utility providing
IMailHandler. The name of the utility is the domain that's handled.

Let's create some utilities which keep track of which mails they
handle, and register them for some domains:

    >>> from canonical.launchpad.interfaces import IMailHandler
    >>> from zope.interface import implements
    >>> from canonical.config import config
    >>> class MockHandler:
    ...     implements(IMailHandler)
    ...     def __init__(self, allow_unknown_users=False):
    ...         self.allow_unknown_users = allow_unknown_users
    ...         self.handledMails = []
    ...     def process(self, mail, to_addr, filealias):
    ...         self.handledMails.append(mail['Message-Id'])
    ...         return True

    >>> from canonical.launchpad.mail.handlers import mail_handlers
    >>> foo_handler = MockHandler()
    >>> bar_handler = MockHandler(allow_unknown_users=True)
    >>> mail_handlers.add('foo.com', foo_handler)
    >>> mail_handlers.add('bar.com', bar_handler)

We temporarily override the error mails' From address, so that they will
pass through the authentication stage:

    >>> old_error_from_address = config.malone.bugmail_error_from_address
    >>> config.malone.bugmail_error_from_address = 'foo.bar@canonical.com'

Now we send a few test mails to foo.com, bar.com, and baz.com:

    >>> from canonical.testing import LaunchpadZopelessLayer
    >>> from canonical.database.sqlbase import commit
    >>> from canonical.launchpad.mail.ftests import read_test_message
    >>> from canonical.launchpad.mail import sendmail

    >>> LaunchpadZopelessLayer.switchDbUser('launchpad')
    >>> msgids = {'foo.com': [], 'bar.com': [], 'baz.com': []}
    >>> for domain in ('foo.com', 'bar.com', 'foo.com', 'baz.com'):
    ...     msg = read_test_message('signed_detached.txt')
    ...     msg.replace_header('To', '123@%s' % domain)
    ...     msgids[domain].append("<%s>" % sendmail(msg))

The test mails are now in Launchpad's mail box, so now we can call
handleMail, so that every mail gets handled by the correct handler.
Since the User gets authenticated using OpenPGP signatures we have to
import the keys first.

    >>> from canonical.launchpad.ftests import import_public_test_keys
    >>> import_public_test_keys()
    >>> commit()
    >>> LaunchpadZopelessLayer.switchDbUser(config.processmail.dbuser)
    >>> zopeless_transaction = LaunchpadZopelessLayer.txn
    >>> handleMail(zopeless_transaction)
    WARNING:canonical.launchpad.mail:No X-Original-To header was present in email: ...
    WARNING:canonical.launchpad.mail:No X-Original-To header was present in email: ...
    WARNING:canonical.launchpad.mail:No X-Original-To header was present in email: ...
    WARNING:canonical.launchpad.mail:No X-Original-To header was present in email: ...

Now we can see that each handler handled the emails sent to its domain:

    >>> set(foo_handler.handledMails) ^ set(msgids['foo.com'])
    set([])
    >>> set(bar_handler.handledMails) ^ set(msgids['bar.com'])
    set([])


== Unhandled Mail ==

So, what happened to the message that got sent to baz.com? Since there
wasn't a handler registered for that domain, an OOPS was recorded with
a link to the original message.

    >>> from canonical.launchpad.mail import stub
    >>> print stub.test_emails[-1][2]
    Content-Type: multipart/mixed...
    ...
    To: Sample Person <test@canonical.com>
    ...
    Sorry, something went wrong when Launchpad tried processing your mail.
    We've recorded what happened, and we'll fix it as soon as possible.
    Apologies for the inconvenience.
    <BLANKLINE>
    If this is blocking your work, please file a question at
    https://answers.edge.launchpad.net/launchpad/+addquestion
    and include the error ID OOPS-... in the description.
    ...
    From: Sample Person <test@canonical.com>
    To: 123@baz.com
    Subject: Signed Email
    ...

    >>> stub.test_emails = []


== Mail from Persons not registered in Launchpad ==

If a Person who isn't registered in Launchpad sends an email, we'll
most of the time reject the email:

    >>> moin_change = read_test_message('moin-change.txt')
    >>> moin_change['X-Original-To'] = '123@foo.com'
    >>> msgid = "<%s>" % sendmail(moin_change)
    >>> handleMail(zopeless_transaction)
    >>> msgid not in foo_handler.handledMails
    True

    >>> stub.test_emails = []

However, bar_handler specifies that it can handle such emails:

    >>> bar_handler.allow_unknown_users
    True

So if we send the mail to bar.com, bar_handler will handle the mail:

    >>> moin_change.replace_header('X-Original-To', '123@bar.com')
    >>> msgid = "<%s>" % sendmail(moin_change)
    >>> handleMail(zopeless_transaction)
    >>> msgid in bar_handler.handledMails
    True

    >>> stub.test_emails = []


== Mail from Persons with with an inactive Launchpad account ==

If a Person who's account is inactive sends an email, it will be
silently rejected.

    >>> from zope.component import getUtility
    >>> from canonical.launchpad.interfaces import IPersonSet
    >>> person_set = getUtility(IPersonSet)
    >>> bigjools = person_set.getByEmail('launchpad@julian-edwards.com')
    >>> print bigjools.account_status.name
    NOACCOUNT

    >>> msg = read_test_message('unsigned_inactive.txt')
    >>> msgid = sendmail(msg, ['edit@malone-domain'])
    >>> handleMail(zopeless_transaction)
    >>> msgid not in foo_handler.handledMails
    True

    >>> msg = read_test_message('invalid_signed_inactive.txt')
    >>> msgid = sendmail(msg, ['edit@malone-domain'])
    >>> handleMail(zopeless_transaction)
    >>> msgid not in foo_handler.handledMails
    True

== X-Original-To ==

If available, the X-Original-To header is used to determine to which
address the email was sent to:

    >>> msg = read_test_message('signed_detached.txt')
    >>> msg.replace_header('To', '123@foo.com')
    >>> msg['CC'] = '123@foo.com'
    >>> msg['X-Original-To'] = '123@bar.com'
    >>> msgid = '<%s>' % sendmail (msg, ['123@bar.com'])
    >>> handleMail(zopeless_transaction)
    >>> msgid in bar_handler.handledMails
    True

Only the address in X-Original-To header will be used. The addresses in
the To and CC headers will be ignored:

    >>> msgid in foo_handler.handledMails
    False


== OOPSes processing incoming mail ==

If an unhandled exception occurs when we try to process an email from
a user, we record an OOPS with the exception and send it to the user.

We create a handler that is guaranteed to raise an exception when
attempting to process incoming mail.

    >>> class TestOopsException(Exception):
    ...     pass
    >>> class OopsHandler:
    ...     implements(IMailHandler)
    ...     def process(self, mail, to_addr, filealias):
    ...         raise TestOopsException()
    >>> mail_handlers.add('oops.com', OopsHandler())

And submit an email to the handler.

    >>> import email
    >>> msg = email.message_from_string(
    ... """From: Foo Bar <foo.bar@canonical.com>
    ... To: launchpad@oops.com
    ... X-Original-To: launchpad@oops.com
    ... Subject: doesn't matter
    ...
    ... doesn't matter
    ... """)
    >>> msgid = sendmail(msg, ['edit@malone-domain'])
    >>> handleMail(zopeless_transaction)
    ERROR:canonical.launchpad.mail:An exception was raised inside the handler:
    ...
    TestOopsException

An exception is raised, an OOPS is recorded, and an email is sent back
to the user, citing the OOPS ID, with the original message attached.

    >>> print stub.test_emails[-1][2]
    Content-Type: multipart/mixed...
    ...
    To: Foo Bar <foo.bar@canonical.com>
    ...
    Sorry, something went wrong when Launchpad tried processing your mail.
    We've recorded what happened, and we'll fix it as soon as possible.
    Apologies for the inconvenience.
    <BLANKLINE>
    If this is blocking your work, please file a question at
    https://answers.edge.launchpad.net/launchpad/+addquestion
    and include the error ID OOPS-...TEMAIL... in the description.
    ...
    From: Foo Bar <foo.bar@canonical.com>
    To: launchpad@oops.com
    X-Original-To: launchpad@oops.com
    Subject: doesn't matter
    ...

    >>> stub.test_emails = []

Unauthorized exceptions, which are ignored for the purpose of OOPS
reporting in the web interface, are not ignored in the email interface.

    >>> from twisted.cred.error import Unauthorized
    >>> class UnauthorizedOopsHandler:
    ...     implements(IMailHandler)
    ...     def process(self, mail, to_addr, filealias):
    ...         raise Unauthorized()
    >>> mail_handlers.add('unauthorized.com', UnauthorizedOopsHandler())

    >>> msg = email.message_from_string(
    ... """From: Foo Bar <foo.bar@canonical.com>
    ... To: launchpad@unauthorized.com
    ... X-Original-To: launchpad@unauthorized.com
    ... Subject: doesn't matter
    ...
    ... doesn't matter
    ... """)
    >>> msgid = sendmail(msg, ['edit@malone-domain'])
    >>> handleMail(zopeless_transaction)
    ERROR:canonical.launchpad.mail:An exception was raised inside the handler:
    ...
    Unauthorized

    >>> print stub.test_emails[-1][2]
    Content-Type: multipart/mixed...
    ...
    To: Foo Bar <foo.bar@canonical.com>
    ...
    Sorry, something went wrong when Launchpad tried processing your mail.
    We've recorded what happened, and we'll fix it as soon as possible.
    Apologies for the inconvenience.
    <BLANKLINE>
    If this is blocking your work, please file a question at
    https://answers.edge.launchpad.net/launchpad/+addquestion
    and include the error ID OOPS-...TEMAIL... in the description.
    ...
    From: Foo Bar <foo.bar@canonical.com>
    To: launchpad@unauthorized.com
    X-Original-To: launchpad@unauthorized.com
    Subject: doesn't matter
    ...

    >>> stub.test_emails = []


== DB exceptions ==

If something goes wrongs in the handler, a DB exception can be raised,
leaving the database in a bad state. If that happens a traceback should
be printed, and the mail should be deleted from the queue.

Let's create and register a handler which raises a SQL error:

    >>> from canonical.database.sqlbase import cursor
    >>> class DBExceptionRaiser:
    ...     implements(IMailHandler)
    ...     def process(self, mail, to_addr, filealias):
    ...         cur = cursor()
    ...         cur.execute('SELECT 1/0')
    >>> mail_handlers.add('except.com', DBExceptionRaiser())

Now we send a mail to the handler, which will cause an exception:

    >>> exception_raiser = email.message_from_string(
    ... """From: Foo Bar <foo.bar@canonical.com>
    ... To: something@except.com
    ... X-Original-To: something@except.com
    ... Subject: Raise an exception
    ...
    ... This part is not important.
    ... """)
    >>> msgid = sendmail(exception_raiser, ['something@exception.com'])

We send another mail as well, in order to make sure that it gets
processed as well:

    >>> msg = read_test_message('signed_detached.txt')
    >>> msg.replace_header('To', '123@foo.com')
    >>> msgid = '<%s>' % sendmail(msg)

If we call handleMail(), we'll see some useful error messages printed
out:

    >>> handleMail(zopeless_transaction)
    ERROR:...:An exception was raised inside the handler: http://...
    Traceback (most recent call last):
    ...
    ProgrammingError: ERROR:  division by zero
    <BLANKLINE>
    SELECT 1/0
    WARNING...

The second mail we sent got handled despite the exception:

    >>> msgid in foo_handler.handledMails
    True

There is only one mail left in the mail box - the one sent back to
the user reporting the error:

    >>> len(stub.test_emails)
    1


== Librarian not running ==

If for some reason the Librarian isn't up and running, we shouldn't
loose any emails. All that should happen is that an error should get
logged.


    >>> from canonical.testing.layers import LibrarianLayer
    >>> LibrarianLayer.hide()

    >>> msg = read_test_message('signed_detached.txt')
    >>> msg.replace_header('To', '123@foo.com')
    >>> msgid = '<%s>' % sendmail(msg)
    >>> len(stub.test_emails)
    2

    >>> handleMail(transaction)
    ERROR:...:Upload to Librarian failed...
    ...
    UploadFailed: (111, 'Connection refused')

    >>> len(stub.test_emails)
    2

    >>> LibrarianLayer.reveal()
    >>> stub.test_emails = []


== Handling bounces ==

Some broken mailers might not respect the Errors-To and Return-Path
headers, send error messages back to the address, from which the email
was sent. To prevent mail loops, we try to detect such errors, and
simply drop the emails.

Emails with an empty Return-Path header should be dropped:

    >>> stub.test_emails = []
    >>> msg = read_test_message('signed_detached.txt')
    >>> msg.replace_header('To', '123@foo.com')
    >>> msg['Return-Path'] = '<>'
    >>> msgid = '<%s>' % sendmail(msg)
    >>> handleMail(zopeless_transaction)
    >>> msgid in foo_handler.handledMails
    False

Since this happens way too often, as we seem to get more spam than
legitimate email, an email is not sent about it to the errors-list.

    >>> len(stub.test_emails)
    0

If the content type is multipart/report, it's most likely a DSN
(RFC 3464), so those get dropped as well. Normally a DSN should have an
empty Return-Path, but there are some broken mailers out there.

    >>> msg = read_test_message('signed_inline.txt')
    >>> msg.replace_header('To', '123@foo.com')
    >>> msg['Return-Path'] = '<not@empty.com>'
    >>> msg['Content-Type'] = (
    ...     'multipart/report; report-type=delivery-status;'
    ...     ' boundary="boundary"')
    >>> msgid = '<%s>' % sendmail(msg)
    >>> handleMail(zopeless_transaction)
    >>> msgid in foo_handler.handledMails
    False

    >>> len(stub.test_emails)
    0


== Doctest cleanup ==

    >>> LibrarianLayer.hide()
    >>> config.malone.bugmail_error_from_address = old_error_from_address
    >>> mail_handlers.add('foo.com', None)
    >>> mail_handlers.add('bar.com', None)
    >>> mail_handlers.add('except.com', None)
    >>> LibrarianLayer.reveal()
