= Team mailing list subscriptions =

Members of a team, either direct or indirect, may subscribe to that team's
mailing list, if it has one.  To illustrate, we'll first create a bunch of
people, a team and its team mailing list.

Only members of the list's team may subscribe to the list.  Add two people to
the team.  David Allouche shows up as a team member because he created the
team (in the doctest infrastructure).

    >>> anne = new_person('Anne')
    >>> bart = new_person('Bart')
    >>> team_one, list_one = new_team('team-one', with_list=True)
    >>> anne.join(team_one)
    >>> bart.join(team_one)
    >>> sorted(member.displayname for member in team_one.allmembers)
    [u'Anne Person', u'Bart Person', u'David Allouche']

Anne subscribes to the mailing list for team one, but Bart does not.  Because
Anne does not provide an email address in his subscription, her preferred
address is used.

    >>> list_one.subscribe(anne)
    >>> flush_database_updates()
    >>> sorted(list_one.addresses)
    [u'anne.person@example.com']

Now Bart also subscribes to the mailing list, but he does so with something
other than his preferred email address.

    >>> from canonical.launchpad.interfaces import IEmailAddressSet
    >>> address_set = getUtility(IEmailAddressSet)
    >>> alternative_email = [address
    ...                      for address in address_set.getByPerson(bart)
    ...                      if address != bart.preferredemail][0]
    >>> alternative_email.email
    u'bperson@example.org'
    >>> list_one.subscribe(bart, alternative_email)
    >>> flush_database_updates()
    >>> sorted(list_one.addresses)
    [u'anne.person@example.com', u'bperson@example.org']

Someone who is not a member of the team may not subscribe to the team's list.

    >>> cris = new_person('Cris')
    >>> list_one.subscribe(cris)
    Traceback (most recent call last):
    ...
    CannotSubscribe: Cris Person is not a member of team Team One

Neither can a team subscribe to a mailing list.

    >>> list_one.subscribe(team_one)
    Traceback (most recent call last):
    ...
    CannotSubscribe: Teams cannot be mailing list members: Team One


== Nested teams ==

Indirect members can subscribe to a team's mailing list.  What this means is
that if Cris is a member of Team Two but not Team One, and Team Two is a
subteam of Team One, then Cris can still subscribe to Team One's mailing list.

    >>> team_two = new_team('team-two')
    >>> cris.join(team_two)
    >>> flush_database_updates()
    >>> sorted(member.displayname for member in team_two.allmembers)
    [u'Cris Person', u'David Allouche']
    >>> sorted(member.displayname for member in team_one.allmembers)
    [u'Anne Person', u'Bart Person', u'David Allouche']

    # Teams cannot join, they must use addMember.  We need salgado as the
    # reviewer for adding team-two to team-one.
    >>> from canonical.launchpad.interfaces import IPersonSet
    >>> salgado = getUtility(IPersonSet).getByName('salgado')
    >>> team_one.addMember(team_two, salgado, force_team_add=True)
    >>> flush_database_updates()
    >>> sorted(member.displayname for member in team_one.allmembers)
    [u'Anne Person', u'Bart Person', u'Cris Person', u'David Allouche',
     u'Team Two']

Now, the indirect member Cris can subscribe to the mailing list, but of course
Team Two still cannot.

    >>> list_one.subscribe(cris)
    >>> flush_database_updates()
    >>> sorted(list_one.addresses)
    [u'anne.person@example.com', u'bperson@example.org',
     u'cris.person@example.com']
    >>> list_one.subscribe(team_two)
    Traceback (most recent call last):
    ...
    CannotSubscribe: Teams cannot be mailing list members: Team Two

Similarly, a person can have a membership in a superteam for which he is an
indirect member, and in a subteam for which he is a direct member, and be able
to join both mailing lists.  For the superteam's list, his address will show
up only once.

    >>> team_three, list_three = new_team('team-three', with_list=True)
    >>> team_one.addMember(team_three, salgado, force_team_add=True)
    >>> dirk = new_person('Dirk')
    >>> dirk.join(team_two)
    >>> dirk.join(team_three)
    >>> list_one.subscribe(dirk)
    >>> list_three.subscribe(dirk)
    >>> flush_database_updates()
    >>> sorted(list_one.addresses)
    [u'anne.person@example.com', u'bperson@example.org',
     u'cris.person@example.com', u'dirk.person@example.com']
    >>> sorted(list_three.addresses)
    [u'dirk.person@example.com']

Once the subteam is deactivated from the superteam, subteam members who have
no other indirect membership in the superteam cannot subscribe to the
superteam's mailing list.

    >>> dirk.leave(team_two)
    >>> flush_database_updates()
    >>> from canonical.launchpad.interfaces import TeamMembershipStatus
    >>> team_one.setMembershipData(team_three,
    ...     TeamMembershipStatus.DEACTIVATED, salgado)
    >>> flush_database_updates()
    >>> sorted(list_one.addresses)
    [u'anne.person@example.com', u'bperson@example.org',
     u'cris.person@example.com']

    >>> list_one.subscribe(dirk)
    Traceback (most recent call last):
    ...
    CannotSubscribe: Dirk Person is not a member of team Team One


== Subscribed email addresses ==

As shown above, a person can subscribe either with their preferred email
address or any other email address they own.  If they choose to use their
preferred email address, this will automatically track changes to their
preferred address.

    >>> elle = new_person('Elle')
    >>> elle.preferredemail.email
    u'elle.person@example.com'
    >>> elle_alternatives = [address
    ...                      for address in address_set.getByPerson(elle)
    ...                      if address != elle.preferredemail]
    >>> assert len(elle_alternatives) == 1, 'Unexpected email count'
    >>> elle_alternative = elle_alternatives[0]
    >>> elle_alternative.email
    u'eperson@example.org'
    >>> team_four, list_four = new_team('team-four', with_list=True)
    >>> elle.join(team_four)
    >>> list_four.subscribe(elle)
    >>> flush_database_updates()
    >>> sorted(list_four.addresses)
    [u'elle.person@example.com']
    >>> elle.setPreferredEmail(elle_alternative)
    >>> flush_database_updates()    
    >>> sorted(list_four.addresses)
    [u'eperson@example.org']

A person cannot subscribe an email address they do not own.

    >>> fred = new_person('Fred')
    >>> anne.join(team_four)
    >>> fred.join(team_four)
    >>> flush_database_updates()
    >>> list_four.subscribe(anne, fred.preferredemail)
    Traceback (most recent call last):
    ...
    CannotSubscribe: Anne Person does not own the email address:
        fred.person@example.com


== Unsubscribing ==

Any list member can unsubscribe from the mailing list.

    >>> sorted(list_one.addresses)
    [u'anne.person@example.com', u'bperson@example.org',
     u'cris.person@example.com']
    >>> list_one.unsubscribe(anne)
    >>> flush_database_updates()
    >>> sorted(list_one.addresses)
    [u'bperson@example.org', u'cris.person@example.com']

But someone who is not a member cannot unsubscribe.

    >>> list_one.unsubscribe(fred)
    Traceback (most recent call last):
    ...
    CannotUnsubscribe: Fred Person is not a member of the mailing list:
        Team One

When someone leaves a direct team, they automatically get unsubscribed.

    >>> bart.leave(team_one)
    >>> flush_database_updates()
    >>> sorted(list_one.addresses)
    [u'cris.person@example.com']

When the person re-joins a team that gives them indirect membership in a team
with a mailing list that they were previously subscribed to, they get
re-subscribed to that mailing list automatically.  See the section on
persistence of preferences below for more examples of this.

    >>> bart.join(team_two)
    >>> flush_database_updates()
    >>> sorted(list_one.addresses)
    [u'bperson@example.org', u'cris.person@example.com']

When someone is a member of a mailing list through an indirect team, and they
leave that indirect team, they also get unsubscribed from the mailing list.

    >>> cris.leave(team_two)
    >>> flush_database_updates()
    >>> sorted(list_one.addresses)
    [u'bperson@example.org']

It's also the case that if a subteam leaves its superteam, all members who
have no other indirect membership in the super team will get unsubscribed from
the mailing list.  To illustrate, we set up a new subteam and join a few new
members to that team.  Only Iona will have a path to the superteam through
more than one subteam.

    >>> team_five = new_team('team-five')
    >>> team_one.addMember(team_five, salgado, force_team_add=True)
    >>> flush_database_updates()
    >>> gwen = new_person('Gwen')
    >>> hank = new_person('Hank')
    >>> iona = new_person('Iona')

    >>> gwen.join(team_five)
    >>> hank.join(team_five)
    >>> iona.join(team_five)
    >>> iona.join(team_two)
    >>> flush_database_updates()

    >>> sorted(list_one.addresses)
    [u'bperson@example.org']

    >>> list_one.subscribe(gwen)
    >>> list_one.subscribe(hank)
    >>> list_one.subscribe(iona)

    >>> sorted(list_one.addresses)
    [u'bperson@example.org', u'gwen.person@example.com',
     u'hank.person@example.com', u'iona.person@example.com']

Now remove one of the subteams from the superteam.  All of the subteams'
members that have no other path to membership in the superteam will be
unsubscribed from the superteam's mailing list.

    >>> team_one.setMembershipData(team_five,
    ...     TeamMembershipStatus.DEACTIVATED, salgado)
    >>> flush_database_updates()
    >>> sorted(list_one.addresses)
    [u'bperson@example.org', u'iona.person@example.com']


== Double subscriptions ==

A list member may only be subscribed once, with a single email address.

    >>> list_one.subscribe(iona)
    Traceback (most recent call last):
    ...
    CannotSubscribe: Iona Person is already subscribed to list Team One

A current subscriber is not even allowed to subscribe multiple times with a
different email address.

    >>> iona_alternatives = [address
    ...                      for address in address_set.getByPerson(iona)
    ...                      if address != iona.preferredemail]
    >>> assert len(iona_alternatives) == 1, 'Unexpected email count'
    >>> iona_alternative = iona_alternatives[0]
    >>> iona_alternative.email
    u'iperson@example.org'

    >>> list_one.subscribe(iona, iona_alternative)
    Traceback (most recent call last):
    ...
    CannotSubscribe: Iona Person is already subscribed to list Team One


== List deactivation ==

When a team's mailing list is deactivated, all subscriptions to that mailing
list are dropped.

    >>> sorted(list_one.addresses)
    [u'bperson@example.org', u'iona.person@example.com']
    >>> list_one.deactivate()
    >>> flush_database_updates()
    >>> from canonical.launchpad.interfaces import MailingListStatus
    >>> list_one.transitionToStatus(MailingListStatus.INACTIVE)
    >>> flush_database_updates()
    >>> sorted(list_one.addresses)
    []

A list that is not active cannot be subscribed to.

    >>> list_one.subscribe(anne)
    Traceback (most recent call last):
    ...
    CannotSubscribe: Mailing list is not active: Team One


== Persistence of preferences ==

When someone gets unsubscribed because they leave a team, their subscription
preferences are preserved, so that if they re-join the team, their
subscription gets re-instated.  Currently, the subscribed email address is the
only relevant preference.

    >>> team_six, list_six = new_team('team-six', with_list=True)
    >>> jack = new_person('Jack')
    >>> jack.join(team_six)
    >>> list_six.subscribe(jack)
    >>> flush_database_updates()
    >>> sorted(list_six.addresses)
    [u'jack.person@example.com']
    >>> jack.leave(team_six)
    >>> flush_database_updates()
    >>> sorted(list_six.addresses)
    []
    >>> jack.join(team_six)
    >>> flush_database_updates()
    >>> sorted(list_six.addresses)
    [u'jack.person@example.com']

This is true even if they subscribe with an address that's different than
their preferred email address.

    >>> kara = new_person('Kara')
    >>> kara.join(team_six)
    >>> kara_alternatives = [address
    ...                      for address in address_set.getByPerson(kara)
    ...                      if address != kara.preferredemail]
    >>> assert len(kara_alternatives) == 1, 'Unexpected email count'
    >>> kara_alternative = kara_alternatives[0]
    >>> kara_alternative.email
    u'kperson@example.org'
    >>> list_six.subscribe(kara, kara_alternative)
    >>> flush_database_updates()
    >>> sorted(list_six.addresses)
    [u'jack.person@example.com', u'kperson@example.org']
    >>> kara.leave(team_six)
    >>> flush_database_updates()
    >>> sorted(list_six.addresses)
    [u'jack.person@example.com']
    >>> kara.join(team_six)
    >>> flush_database_updates()
    >>> sorted(list_six.addresses)
    [u'jack.person@example.com', u'kperson@example.org']


== Changing subscribed email address ==

A member of a mailing list can request to change certain aspects of their
subscription.  Currently the only thing they can change is their subscribed
address.  Let's say for example that Kara wants to change the address that
she is subscribed to List Six with.

    >>> list_six.unsubscribe(jack)
    >>> for address in address_set.getByPerson(kara):
    ...     list_six.changeAddress(kara, address)
    ...     flush_database_updates()
    ...     print address.email, sorted(list_six.addresses)
    kara.person@example.com [u'kara.person@example.com']
    kperson@example.org [u'kperson@example.org']

Kara can also change her email address to None, which uses and tracks any
changes to her preferred email address.

    >>> list_six.changeAddress(kara, None)
    >>> flush_database_updates()
    >>> sorted(list_six.addresses)
    [u'kara.person@example.com']
    >>> for address in address_set.getByPerson(kara):
    ...     kara.setPreferredEmail(address)
    ...     flush_database_updates()
    ...     print address.email, sorted(list_six.addresses)
    kara.person@example.com [u'kara.person@example.com']
    kperson@example.org [u'kperson@example.org']

Someone who is not a member of the mailing list of course cannot change their
subscription address.

    >>> list_six.changeAddress(anne, None)
    Traceback (most recent call last):
    ...
    CannotChangeSubscription: Anne Person is not a member of
        the mailing list: Team Six
