= OAuth (http://oauth.net/core/1.0/) =

This is a mechanism for allowing a third party application to access
Launchpad on a user's behalf.  These applications are identified by a
unique key and are stored as OAuthConsumers.

These applications (also called consumers) are managed by the
OAuthConsumerSet utility.

    >>> from canonical.launchpad.webapp.testing import verifyObject
    >>> from canonical.launchpad.webapp.interfaces import (
    ...     AccessLevel, OAuthPermission)
    >>> from canonical.launchpad.interfaces import (
    ...     IOAuthAccessToken, IOAuthConsumer, IOAuthConsumerSet,
    ...     IOAuthNonce, IOAuthRequestToken, IPersonSet)
    >>> consumer_set = getUtility(IOAuthConsumerSet)
    >>> verifyObject(IOAuthConsumerSet, consumer_set)
    True

    >>> consumer = consumer_set.new(key='asdfg')
    >>> verifyObject(IOAuthConsumer, consumer)
    True

    >>> consumer_set.getByKey('asdfg') == consumer
    True

    >>> print consumer_set.getByKey('gfdsa')
    None

As mentioned above, the keys are unique, so we can't create a second
Consumer with the same key.

    >>> consumer_set.new(key='asdfg')
    Traceback (most recent call last):
    ...
    AssertionError: ...


== Request tokens ==

When a consumer wants to access protected resources on Launchpad, it
must first ask for an OAuthRequestToken, which is then used when the
consumer sends the user to the Launchpad authorization page.


=== Creating request tokens ===

The request tokens are created using IOAuthConsumer.newRequestToken().

    >>> request_token = consumer.newRequestToken()
    >>> verifyObject(IOAuthRequestToken, request_token)
    True

The token's key and secret have a length of 20 and 80 respectively.

    >>> len(request_token.key)
    20
    >>> len(request_token.secret)
    80

Newly created tokens have no context associated with.

    >>> print request_token.context
    None

Initially, a token does not have a person or permission associated with
it as the consumer doesn't know what the user's identity is on
Launchpad.

    >>> print request_token.person
    None
    >>> print request_token.permission
    None
    >>> print request_token.date_reviewed
    None

Once the user reviews (approve/decline) the consumer's request, the
token is considered used and can only be exchanged for an access token
(when the access is granted by the user).

    >>> salgado = getUtility(IPersonSet).getByName('salgado')
    >>> request_token.review(salgado, OAuthPermission.WRITE_PUBLIC)
    >>> from canonical.launchpad.ftests import syncUpdate
    >>> syncUpdate(request_token)

    >>> from datetime import datetime, timedelta
    >>> import pytz
    >>> print request_token.person.name
    salgado
    >>> request_token.permission
    <DBItem OAuthPermission.WRITE_PUBLIC...
    >>> request_token.date_reviewed <= datetime.now(pytz.timezone('UTC'))
    True
    >>> request_token.is_reviewed
    True

When reviewing a token we can also change the context associated with
it, which means the consumer using that token will only have access
to things linked to that context (Product, Project, Distribution,
DistroSourcePackage).

    >>> from canonical.launchpad.interfaces import (
    ...     IDistributionSet, IProductSet, IProjectSet, ISourcePackageNameSet)
    >>> firefox = getUtility(IProductSet)['firefox']
    >>> request_token2 = consumer.newRequestToken()
    >>> request_token2.review(
    ...     salgado, OAuthPermission.WRITE_PRIVATE, product=firefox)
    >>> request_token2.context.title
    u'Mozilla Firefox'

    >>> mozilla = getUtility(IProjectSet)['mozilla']
    >>> request_token2 = consumer.newRequestToken()
    >>> request_token2.review(
    ...     salgado, OAuthPermission.WRITE_PRIVATE, project=mozilla)
    >>> request_token2.context.title
    u'The Mozilla Project'

    >>> ubuntu = getUtility(IDistributionSet)['ubuntu']
    >>> evolution = getUtility(ISourcePackageNameSet)['evolution']
    >>> request_token2 = consumer.newRequestToken()
    >>> request_token2.review(
    ...     salgado, OAuthPermission.WRITE_PRIVATE, distribution=ubuntu,
    ...     sourcepackagename=evolution)
    >>> request_token2.context.title
    u'\u201cevolution\u201d source package in Ubuntu'


=== Retrieving request tokens ===

Any consumer can retrieve its request tokens as long as it knows their
keys.

    >>> consumer.getRequestToken(request_token.key) == request_token
    True

If there is no token with the given key, or the existing token is
associated with another consumer, getRequestToken() will return None.

    >>> print consumer.getRequestToken('zzzzzzzz')
    None
    >>> consumer2 = consumer_set.new(key='foobar')
    >>> print consumer2.getRequestToken(request_token.key)
    None

We also have OAuthRequestTokenSet.getByKey(), which allows us to get a
request token with the given key regardless of the consumer associated
with it.

    >>> from canonical.launchpad.interfaces import IOAuthRequestTokenSet
    >>> token_set = getUtility(IOAuthRequestTokenSet)
    >>> token_set.getByKey(request_token.key) == request_token
    True

    >>> request_token2 = consumer2.newRequestToken()
    >>> token_set.getByKey(request_token2.key) == request_token2
    True

    >>> print token_set.getByKey('zzzzzzzzz')
    None


=== Exchanging request tokens for access tokens ===

Once a request token has been reviewed it may be exchanged for an access
token. That may happen only if the user actually granted some sort of
permission to the consumer when reviewing the request.

The access token's permission will be the same as the request token's
one, but it is an item of AccessLevel rather than OAuthPermission
because the former doesn't have an UNAUTHORIZED item (which doesn't
make sense in access tokens).

    >>> request_token.is_reviewed
    True
    >>> request_token.permission
    <DBItem OAuthPermission.WRITE_PUBLIC...
    >>> access_token = request_token.createAccessToken()
    >>> verifyObject(IOAuthAccessToken, access_token)
    True
    >>> access_token.permission
    <DBItem AccessLevel.WRITE_PUBLIC...

After the access token is generated, the request token is deleted.

    >>> print consumer.getRequestToken(request_token.key)
    None

By default, access tokens don't expire.

    >>> print access_token.date_expires
    None

Access tokens will also inherit the context from the request token.

    >>> request_token2 = consumer.newRequestToken()
    >>> request_token2.review(
    ...     salgado, OAuthPermission.WRITE_PRIVATE, product=firefox)
    >>> access_token2 = request_token2.createAccessToken()
    >>> access_token2.context.title
    u'Mozilla Firefox'

If the request token hasn't been reviewed yet, it can't be used to
create an access token.

    >>> request_token = consumer.newRequestToken()
    >>> request_token.is_reviewed
    False
    >>> access_token = request_token.createAccessToken()
    Traceback (most recent call last):
    ...
    AssertionError: ...

The same holds true for request tokens that have UNAUTHORIZED as their
permission.

    >>> request_token.review(salgado, OAuthPermission.UNAUTHORIZED)
    >>> request_token.is_reviewed
    True
    >>> access_token = request_token.createAccessToken()
    Traceback (most recent call last):
    ...
    AssertionError: ...


== Access tokens ==

As shown above, access tokens can be created from any reviewed (and
authorized) request tokens. These tokens are then stored by the consumer
and included in all further requests made on behalf of the same user, so
we need a way to retrieve an access token from any consumer.

    >>> consumer.getAccessToken(access_token.key) == access_token
    True

An access token can only be changed by the person associated with it.

    >>> access_token.permission = OAuthPermission.WRITE_PUBLIC
    Traceback (most recent call last):
    ...
    Unauthorized:...
    >>> login_person(access_token.person)
    >>> access_token.permission = AccessLevel.WRITE_PUBLIC

From any given person it's possible to retrieve his non-expired access
tokens.

    >>> access_token.person.oauth_access_tokens.count()
    4
    >>> access_token.date_expires = (
    ...     datetime.now(pytz.timezone('UTC')) - timedelta(hours=1))
    >>> syncUpdate(access_token)
    >>> access_token.person.oauth_access_tokens.count()
    3


== Nonces and timestamps ==

A nonce is a random string, uniquely generated by the consumer for each
request.  The nonce allows Launchpad to verify that a request has never
been made before and helps prevent replay attacks when requests are made
over a non-secure channel (such as HTTP).

Whenever we process an OAuth request, we ensure that either the nonce
exists and the timestamp in the request is within a certain range of the
stored timestamp (+/- 60 seconds), or that it doesn't exist yet and thus
should be created.  All this is done by IOAuthAccessToken.ensureNonce(),
which takes a nonce (string) and a timestamp as arguments.

    >>> from canonical.launchpad.database.oauth import NONCE_TIME_WINDOW
    >>> import time
    >>> now = time.time()
    >>> nonce = access_token.ensureNonce('boo', now)
    >>> verifyObject(IOAuthNonce, nonce)
    True

    >>> nonce = access_token.ensureNonce('boo', now + NONCE_TIME_WINDOW + 1)
    Traceback (most recent call last):
    ...
    NonceAlreadyUsed: ...

    >>> nonce == access_token.ensureNonce('boo', now + NONCE_TIME_WINDOW - 1)
    True
