= Support Tracker System =

Launchpad includes a tech support ticket tracker. Tickets are created
and accessed using the ITicketTarget interface. This interface is
available on products, distributions and sourcepackages.

    >>> login('test@canonical.com')

    >>> from zope.interface.verify import verifyObject
    >>> from canonical.launchpad.interfaces import (
    ...     IDistributionSet, IProductSet, IPersonSet, ITicketTarget)

    >>> firefox = getUtility(IProductSet)['firefox']
    >>> verifyObject(ITicketTarget, firefox)
    True

    >>> ubuntu = getUtility(IDistributionSet).getByName('ubuntu')
    >>> verifyObject(ITicketTarget, ubuntu)
    True

    >>> firefox_package = ubuntu.currentrelease.getSourcePackage(
    ...     'mozilla-firefox')
    >>> verifyObject(ITicketTarget, firefox_package)
    True

You create a new ticket by calling the newTicket() method of an
ITicketTarget attribute.

    >>> sample_person = getUtility(IPersonSet).getByEmail('test@canonical.com')
    >>> firefox_ticket = firefox.newTicket(
    ...     sample_person, "Firefox ticket", "Unable to use Firefox")

(The complete ITicketTarget interface is documented in
../interfaces/ftests/tickettarget.txt.)

== ITicket ==

Tickets are manipulated through the ITicket interface:

    >>> from canonical.launchpad.interfaces import ITicket
    >>> from zope.security.proxy import removeSecurityProxy

    # The complete interface is not necessarily available to the
    # logged in user.
    >>> verifyObject(ITicket, removeSecurityProxy(firefox_ticket))
    True

The person who submitted the ticket is available in the owner field.

    >>> firefox_ticket.owner == sample_person
    True

When the ticket is created, the owner is added to the ticket's
subscribers:

    >>> sample_person in [s.person for s in firefox_ticket.subscriptions]
    True

The ticket status is 'Open':

    >>> firefox_ticket.status.title
    'Open'

And the creation time is recorded in the datecreated attribute:

    >>> from datetime import datetime, timedelta
    >>> from pytz import UTC
    >>> now = datetime.now(UTC)
    >>> now - firefox_ticket.datecreated < timedelta(seconds=5)
    True

The target onto which the ticket was created is available throught the
attribute:

    >>> firefox_ticket.target == firefox
    True

It is also possible to adapt a ticket to its ITicketTarget.

    >>> target = ITicketTarget(firefox_ticket)
    >>> verifyObject(ITicketTarget, target)
    True

== Subscriptions and Notifications ==

Whenever a ticket is created or changed, email notifications will be
sent. To receive such notification, one can subscribe to the bug using
the subscribe() method.

    >>> no_priv = getUtility(IPersonSet).getByName('no-priv')
    >>> subscription = firefox_ticket.subscribe(no_priv)

The list of subscriptions is available in the subscriptions attribute.
In the current case, the subscribers will include the owner
('Sample Person') and the newly subscribed person.

    >>> [s.person.displayname for s in firefox_ticket.subscriptions]
    [u'Sample Person', u'No Privileges Person']

To remove a person from the subscriptions list, we use the unsubscribe()
method.

    >>> firefox_ticket.unsubscribe(no_priv)
    >>> [s.person.displayname for s in firefox_ticket.subscriptions]
    [u'Sample Person']

The persons who are on the subscription list are said to be directly
subscribed to the ticket. They explicitely choose to get notifications
about that particular ticket. This list of persons is available through
the getDirectSubscribers() method.

    >>> [person.displayname
    ...     for person in firefox_ticket.getDirectSubscribers()]
    [u'Sample Person']

There is also a list of 'indirect' subscribers to the ticket. These
are persons that didn't explicitely subscribed to the ticket, but that
will receive notifications for other reason. Support contacts for the
ticket target are part of the indirect subscribers list.

    # There is no support contact on the firefox product.
    >>> [person.displayname
    ...     for person in firefox_ticket.getIndirectSubscribers()]
    []
    >>> firefox.addSupportContact(no_priv)
    True
    >>> [person.displayname
    ...  for person in firefox_ticket.getIndirectSubscribers()]
    [u'No Privileges Person']

There is a special case for when the ticket's is associated to a source
package. The support contacts for both the distribution and the source
package are part of the indirect subscribers list.

    # Let's register some support contacts for the distribution and
    # the package.
    >>> list(ubuntu.support_contacts)
    []
    >>> list(firefox_package.support_contacts)
    []
    >>> ubuntu_team = getUtility(IPersonSet).getByName('ubuntu-team')
    >>> ubuntu.addSupportContact(ubuntu_team)
    True
    >>> firefox_package.addSupportContact(no_priv)
    True
    >>> package_ticket = firefox_package.newTicket(
    ...     sample_person, 'Upgrading to Firefox 1.5 breaks theme',
    ...     "The FnordsHighlighter theme doesn't work after upgrade.")
    >>> [s.person.displayname for s in package_ticket.subscriptions]
    [u'Sample Person']
    >>> [person.displayname
    ...  for person in package_ticket.getIndirectSubscribers()]
    [u'No Privileges Person', u'Ubuntu Team']

The ticket's assignee is also part of the indirect subscription list:

    >>> login('foo.bar@canonical.com')
    >>> package_ticket.assignee = getUtility(IPersonSet).getByName('name16')
    >>> [person.displayname
    ...  for person in package_ticket.getIndirectSubscribers()]
    [u'Foo Bar', u'No Privileges Person', u'Ubuntu Team']

Notifications are sent to the list of direct and indirect subscribers.
The notification recipients list can be obtained by using the
getSubscribers() method.

    >>> login('no-priv@canonical.com')
    >>> [person.displayname for person in firefox_ticket.getSubscribers()]
    [u'No Privileges Person', u'Sample Person']

(More documentation on the ticket notifications can be found in
'support-tracker-notifications.txt'.)

== Workflow ==

A ticket status should not be manipulated directly but through the
workflow methods.

The complete ticket workflow is documented in
'support-tracker-workflow.txt'.

== Bug Linking ==

Ticket implements the IBugLinkTarget interface which makes it possible
to link bug report to ticket.

    >>> from canonical.launchpad.interfaces import IBugLinkTarget
    >>> verifyObject(IBugLinkTarget, firefox_ticket)
    True

(See ../interfaces/ftests/buglinktarget.txt for the documentation and
test of the IBugLinkTarget interface.)

When a bug is linked to a ticket, the ticket's owner is subscribed to
the bug.

    >>> from canonical.launchpad.interfaces import IBugSet
    >>> bug7 = getUtility(IBugSet).get(7)
    >>> bug7.isSubscribed(firefox_ticket.owner)
    False
    >>> firefox_ticket.linkBug(bug7)
    <TicketBug...>
    >>> bug7.isSubscribed(firefox_ticket.owner)
    True

When the link is removed, the owner is unsubscribed:

    >>> firefox_ticket.unlinkBug(bug7)
    <TicketBug...>
    >>> bug7.isSubscribed(firefox_ticket.owner)
    False
