= Launchpad administrator approval =

When a team requests a mailing list, this request must be approved by a
Launchpad administrator before the mailing list will be created.

Anonymous users cannot view the mailing list approval page.

    >>> anon_browser.open('http://launchpad.dev/+mailinglists')
    Traceback (most recent call last):
    ...
    Unauthorized: ...

Ordinary users also cannot view this page.

    >>> user_browser.open('http://launchpad.dev/+mailinglists')
    Traceback (most recent call last):
    ...
    Unauthorized: ...

But Launchpad administrators can see the mailing list approval page.

    >>> admin_browser.open('http://launchpad.dev/+mailinglists')
    >>> admin_browser.title
    'Pending mailing lists requests'

Additionally, members of the Mailing List Experts team can see the approval
page.  Sample Person is not a mailing list expert, and cannot view the page.

    >>> sample_browser = setupBrowser('Basic test@canonical.com:test')
    >>> sample_browser.open('http://launchpad.dev/+mailinglists')
    Traceback (most recent call last):
    ...
    Unauthorized: ...

But once Sample Person is made a mailing list expert, he can view the page.

    >>> admin_browser.open(
    ...     'http://launchpad.dev/~mailing-list-experts/+addmember')
    >>> admin_browser.getControl('New member').value = 'name12'
    >>> admin_browser.getControl('Add Member').click()

    >>> sample_browser.open('http://launchpad.dev/+mailinglists')
    >>> sample_browser.title
    'Pending mailing lists requests'

For convenience, let's use the mailing list expert's browser.

    >>> browser = sample_browser


== When there's nothing to do ==

When there are no pending mailing list requests, the page contains just a
helpful message and no form.

    >>> extract_text(find_tag_by_id(browser.contents, 'status'))
    u'There is nothing to do.'

    >>> browser.getControl('Submit')
    Traceback (most recent call last):
    ...
    LookupError: label 'Submit'


== When there is something to do ==

Now the No Privileges Person creates a team, and then requests a mailing list
for that team.  This mailing list will not be created until the Launchpad
administrator approves it.

    >>> from lp.registry.tests import mailinglists_helper
    >>> mailinglists_helper.apply_for_list(user_browser, 'test-one')

The Launchpad administrator views the pending requests page, and sees that
there is a request by No Privileges Person to create the Test One mailing
list.

    >>> browser.reload()
    >>> browser.getControl('Submit')
    <SubmitControl name='field.actions.submit' type='submit'>
    >>> mailinglists_helper.print_review_table(browser.contents)
    App Dec Hol Team                     Requester
    ( ) ( ) (*) Test One <.../~test-one> No Privileges Person <.../~no-priv>

The user creates a second team, and makes a request to create this new team's
mailing list.  The pending requests administration page shows them both.

    >>> mailinglists_helper.apply_for_list(user_browser, 'test-two')

    >>> browser.reload()
    >>> mailinglists_helper.print_review_table(browser.contents)
    App Dec Hol Team                     Requester
    ( ) ( ) (*) Test One <.../~test-one> No Privileges Person <.../~no-priv>
    ( ) ( ) (*) Test Two <.../~test-two> No Privileges Person <.../~no-priv>


== Deferring decisions ==

The Launchpad administrator defers until later the decisions about whether to
approve or decline the mailing list requests.  This is called 'holding' the
request and it is the default action.  Deferring the decision until later
really means that nothing happens.

    >>> browser.getControl('Submit').click()
    >>> mailinglists_helper.print_review_table(browser.contents)
    App Dec Hol Team                     Requester
    ( ) ( ) (*) Test One <.../~test-one> No Privileges Person <.../~no-priv>
    ( ) ( ) (*) Test Two <.../~test-two> No Privileges Person <.../~no-priv>


== Approving lists ==

The Launchpad administrator decides that the Test One mailing list is a good
idea, so she goes ahead and approves that list's creation.  She defers the
decision on the other mailing list until later.

    >>> browser.getControl(name='field.test-one').value = ['approve']
    >>> browser.getControl('Submit').click()

The pending requests page no longer displays anything about the Test One
mailing list, but the Test Two list is still pending.

    >>> mailinglists_helper.print_review_table(browser.contents)
    App Dec Hol Team                     Requester
    ( ) ( ) (*) Test Two <.../~test-two> No Privileges Person <.../~no-priv>

The Test One mailing list has been approved so that Mailman can create it,
though we won't wait for Mailman to act <wink>.

    >>> print '\n'.join(get_feedback_messages(browser.contents))
    Test One mailing list was approved


== Declining lists ==

The Launchpad administrator decides that the Test Two mailing list is a bad
idea, so she goes ahead and declines that list's creation.

    >>> browser.getControl(name='field.test-two').value = ['decline']
    >>> browser.getControl('Submit').click()

The pending requests page no longer displays anything about the Test Two
mailing list.

    >>> extract_text(find_tag_by_id(browser.contents, 'status'))
    u'There is nothing to do.'
    >>> print '\n'.join(get_feedback_messages(browser.contents))
    Test Two mailing list was declined

The Test Two mailing list has been declined so Mailman will not create it.

    >>> user_browser.open('http://launchpad.dev/~test-two/+mailinglist')
    >>> print extract_text(find_main_content(user_browser.contents))
    Mailing list configuration
    The application for this team's mailing list has been declined.
    Please contact a Launchpad administrator for further assistance.


== Multiple actions ==

The Launchpad administrator neglects to check for pending requests for a
little while, and in the meantime, three new requests have appeared.

    >>> mailinglists_helper.apply_for_list(user_browser, 'test-three')
    >>> mailinglists_helper.apply_for_list(user_browser, 'test-four')
    >>> mailinglists_helper.apply_for_list(user_browser, 'test-five')

The Launchpad administrator can approve them all at once.

    >>> browser.open('http://launchpad.dev/+mailinglists')
    >>> mailinglists_helper.print_review_table(browser.contents)
    App Dec Hol Team                         Requester
    ( ) ( ) (*) Test Five <.../~test-five>   No Priv... <.../~no-priv>
    ( ) ( ) (*) Test Four <.../~test-four>   No Priv... <.../~no-priv>
    ( ) ( ) (*) Test Three <.../~test-three> No Priv... <.../~no-priv>

    >>> browser.getControl(name='field.test-three').value = ['approve']
    >>> browser.getControl(name='field.test-four').value = ['approve']
    >>> browser.getControl(name='field.test-five').value = ['approve']
    >>> browser.getControl('Submit').click()

    >>> for message in sorted(get_feedback_messages(browser.contents)):
    ...     print message
    Test Five mailing list was approved
    Test Four mailing list was approved
    Test Three mailing list was approved


== Private membership teams ==

When there is a private membership team that needs approval, a mailing list
expert can perform this action even if they are not members of the team and
normally wouldn't have permission to view the team.

    >>> mailinglists_helper.apply_for_list(
    ...     admin_browser, 'test-six', private=True)
    >>> admin_browser.open('http://launchpad.dev/~test-six/+edit')
    >>> admin_browser.getControl('Save').click()

The mailing list expert can still approve this request.

    >>> browser.open('http://launchpad.dev/+mailinglists')
    >>> browser.getControl(name='field.test-six').value = ['approve']
    >>> browser.getControl('Submit').click()

    >>> for message in sorted(get_feedback_messages(browser.contents)):
    ...     print message
    Test Six mailing list was approved
