==================================================
Questions frequently asked of Launchpad's strategy
==================================================


When are we going to get wikis?
===============================

Everyone knows it.  Launchpad needs some way to store large chunks of
hyperlinked text and some way of giving projects much more control over the
interface that they present to end users.

We are going to do this, honest.  We just are not going to do it soon.  First,
we need to make Launchpad blazingly fast and make our privacy offering
excellent.

After that, we can begin to think about wikis.


Git support?
============

This is a tough one.  If we want more people and projects to use Launchpad,
then this is an obvious next step.  However, if we were to do it, it would
have to be done in a certain way.

Cross-project collaboration is at the very heart of Launchpad.  We want people
to be able to start contributing to other projects with as few barriers as
possible.  If some projects were only available in Bazaar and some only
available in Git, then one could never be sure exactly how to begin
contributing.  The beautiful simplicity of::

  $ bzr branch lp:foo

would disappear if only some projects were available in Bazaar.

If we were to offer Git support, it would have to be in such a way that one
could always use Bazaar to branch from and push to a project.


Are we going to sell Launchpad services?
========================================

Right now, we aren't particularly interested in making money by offering
Launchpad services.

Once we get a really top-class privacy offering within Launchpad that works
well for our internal users, then we will probably consider getting serious
about selling Launchpad services.

Note that selling Launchpad services involves getting sales people, commercial
support and possibly some marketing.  It's not as simple as hooking up a
payment system.


Can you please make Launchpad do $THING?
========================================

Maybe.  We would love to be able to fix all of the bugs in Launchpad and make
it everything that you ever hoped for in a software development collaboration
platform.  Sadly, we cannot.

You are more than welcome to use the launchpad-users@lists.launchpad.net
mailing list to try to convince us, or to talk with us on #launchpad on
Freenode.  However, if it's something big and it's not already on
https://dev.launchpad.net/Roadmap, the chances are slim.

Each month, the Canonical Launchpad development team asks our key stakeholders
what they would like us to do, try to reach some sort of consensus and then do
whatever we have agreed on.  If you would like the Canonical Launchpad team to
do some hacking for you, then you should try to convince one of the
stakeholder representatives that it's the best next thing to do.

Reps are listed at
https://wiki.canonical.com/Launchpad/Strategy/StakeholderMeeting.  If you
don't have access to the Canonical wiki, just ask around.
